Please provide the German
text you want me to translate.
*Tortured Muttering*
(There are days,
when it's better to just stay in bed.)
(Either
this isn't my desk,
or I have missed my
career advancement.)
(As they say, there are days when
it would be better to have stayed in bed.)
* Mysterious Sounds *
Hello?
* Unsettled Sounds *
It wasn't me.
*Theme music by
"Philip Maloney"*
(Announcer) The hair-raising
cases of Philip Maloney.
Today: Killer Instinct
With subtitles by SWISS TXT
Maloney?
He was missing just now.
- That's a crime scene.
I was all out of cheese.
- What are you doing here?
Personal protection.
They say: Target missed. - That's not my client.
Come with me. What
about the second body?
Which second body?
The cleaner has
reported two bodies.
One here and one under a desk
in Mr. Tosoni's office -
they say she looks awful.
There I was lying.
The corpse had a
bloody knife in its hand.
Where is the knife, Maloney?
There are no fingerprints
on it anymore.
Finally, it's time...
What? Are you retiring?
- You are under arrest, Maloney.
That's so good,
just one more time:
You are under arrest, right now.
- Are you serious?
Resistance is futile!
Maloney, you are under arrest.
No, no, the other way
around sounds even better.
You are under arrest,
Maloney. You are under arrest!
I have never seen him
so happy.
Just for the record:
You are wasting taxpayers' money.
We are still a long
way from the protocol.
Enjoy the here and now.
I don't like it,
when he is so happy.
Come in.
*Merry Whistling*
I would have liked to
keep you waiting longer,
but duty calls.
Is that a new preference?
No, I'm just protecting myself
from a potential murderer.
And who protects me
from potential idiots?
It is important, that you say
everything into the microphone.
Who protects me
from potential idiots?
Everything you say,
will be transcribed,
analyzed and cataloged.
If you are guilty,
our system knows.
even before you
admitted anything.
The future of the
police is efficient.
And the future of mankind
is lost.
Also, Maloney.
Last name, first name?
No, for the record.
Philip Maloney, innocent.
Innocent people don't
wake up with a bloody knife.
I didn't kill the woman.
- That's what they all say.
I have no motive.
- A motive is always found.
The deceased's name is Tabea
Schuppisser. She was a chance ...
No, wrong, Change
and Innovation Manager
at Tosoni Lebensmittel AG.
Does that tell you something?
- What? Tabea Schuppisser?
Or Change
and Innovation Management? - Both.
A little.
- Yeah, what now?- Both.
Why do you always have
to rename everything?
Next, it's no longer called
Police, but Crime Management.
Crime ...
... Management.
No, that's it, I'm done!
Maloney, You're
telling me exactly now,
What happened last night. And
don't leave anything out, understood?
Also ...
Started
it actually like always.
In my office.
With a commission.
Tosoni is my name, Daniel Tosoni.
I am being pursued by a killer.
I see no killer.
With jokes you're at the
wrong address with me.
Humor is for people
without ambitions.
You're at the wrong door.
- But someone wants to kill me.
Where do you want to know that from?
- That's my killer instinct.
Does he also tell you
who wants to kill you?
Unfortunately no. I am a
successful entrepreneur.
Since I took over the
company from my mother,
is that growth enormous -
that's how you make enemies.
Company, growth and mother
in one sentence.
No wonder,
someone wants to kill him.
Accompany me to the
company anniversary.
I am a private investigator, not an escort.
- As a bodyguard.
You must constantly expand your scope of work.
Only then will you
remain competitive.
Exactly those people
are to blame for that,
that those above have increasingly more
and those below increasingly less.
But if it helps with redistribution,
I can't object too much either.
You're in luck: As of today
I also offer personal protection,
however, at a higher price -
hazard pay.
So is good.
* Loose Music *
(Tosoni introduced me
at this party as his employee
introduced as an investor
and I hoped,
not to meet any more of his kind
.)
That's Tabea
Schuppisser, by the way.
Listen to them carefully,
then you can learn something.
... for this reason I have
developed an action plan.
If you apply the plan
correctly, Tosoni Food Ltd. will
soon be set up
even more agilely.
The Schuppisser Strategy!
- The Future of Cheese!
Exactly. Be there on time
for the company anniversary.
A restructuring plan, that
will make us competitive
will provide a clear
advantage. Voila!
Yes!
My mother knew, of
course, how to make cheese,
but she didn't understand
anything about numbers.
We have to make our
cheese attractive to investors.
You have to kind of pull the strings with that cheese.
Exactly.
(Schuppisser) The management of a
company must be based on figures.
Emotions are irrelevant
in modern economics.
Daniel fortunately
understands and lets us work.
Thank you, Daniel.
Marlon Andermatt, Head of
Communications and Public Relations.
I am responsible for the
communications strategy
and for the stakeholders.
Good, when you look at the steaks.
- No steak. Marketing.
Because of me, people buy
all that cheese in the first place.
You certainly know our slogan.
- Luckily not yet.
"Tosoni - the one and only."
That was my idea.
Products and companies
need emotions and storytelling.
A slogan needs power!
Where is your investment focus?
On the tobacco and whiskey industry.
- A dying branch.
You should reorient yourself.
- Cheese and more cheese?
My Tabea. She has
a knack for the future.
We are a couple.
One should not mix
private and professional matters.
I see this separation as
an artifact of bygone times.
Tabea has written an
exciting thesis on this.
I can imagine that.
- Increased productivity
through the synergy of
professional and private life.
Do you want to raise them?
I'd rather stick
cheese in my ears.
That's a party, not a meeting.
Come on, have fun! Come with me.
The Schuppisser strategy is highly
sought after by my competition.
A groundbreaking plan
for our entire industry.
I'd better get them to safety.
* Threatening Sounds *
Thank you, I'm
already taken care of.
Haven't you heard, Fink?
He doesn't want any cheese.
No appreciation for
tradition and cheese?
Have you seen the
knife? Fink is a killer.
He tried several
times to start a union.
I want to pass on my
entrepreneurial spirit to my employees.
That's not always easy,
but I always tell myself:
"Daniel, it's
lonely at the top."
Come with me.
* Animated Music *
Are you the mysterious investor?
- They say so.
Amanita Koller. I head
the Mycology Department.
Myko-what?
- Mycology. That's fungi.
And what are you looking for
in a cheese factory?
I'm developing an alternative
product to cheese here.
Instead of blue cheese
only blue mold anymore?
Mushrooms also
have a cleansing effect.
Mycotherapy.
Mushrooms are among
the oldest natural remedies.
They detoxify the body and
strengthen the immune system.
It's also good for the liver.
If you say so.
And what do you think
of the Schuppisser strategy?
Tabea says, if
Tosoni doesn't resist,
then we're going
all in on mushrooms.
In the plan there are funds
for a larger mushroom lab.
But Tosoni isn't interested?
- We'll see about that.
Do you know, I have a weakness
for morbid and
idiosyncratic life forms.
Aha.
Do you dance?
Only if there's no other way.
Too bad.
* Animated Pop Music *
(Tosoni) Maloney!
Oh my.
I almost forgot that one.
With your work ethic I would
have gone bankrupt a long time ago.
Turnover is just a state too.
- You sound like my mother.
Yes, watch my badge.
If something happens to me,
the Schuppisser strategy is safe.
* Mysterious Sounds *
* Animated party music *
Cheese!
Get up!
Morning hour has
cheese in its mouth.
And you have
an Emmental in your head.
A leaky brain
with an expired date.
Better a young cheese in your
head than an old Maloney in the box.
While you were lounging around here,
the police were busy.
And, what have you found out?
It's all very complex
and mixed up.
And now you need
a Maloney to straighten things out?
Don't think you're off the hook.
You report to me every 3 hours.
- But...- Every 3 hours!
Good.
(One shouldn't think,
that one could give a Maloney
to pin a murder on someone innocent.
)
(Only socks and
feet belong in there.)
Just calm down.
Maloney, you've got guts.
That's all your fault.
- What?
The Schuppisser
strategy, it is gone.
The whole file!
Simply gone, stolen.
You want to finish off my
company and me But not with me!
Put the thing away.
- You have to kill a killer!
Maybe you're the killer.
I won't pay you
for suspecting me.
If you keep this up, I
won't pay you anymore.
Ms. Schuppisser has offered you
the top position at the company
Contested.
Did you kill her for that reason?
What? *He laughs.*
Certainly not.
Aren't you listening?
The plan is gone!
Someone's after me.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Schuppisser is dead
and not you.
Hey, where are you going?
Where are you going?
Maloney? Maloney!
(Perhaps
the murder of Mrs. Schuppisser
nothing to do with
Tosoni's cheese.)
(And it is, as in most
cases, a personal motive.)
She is dead. She's
out of her mind.
She takes the boat.
Tabea, my Tabea.
- Why are you working today?
What else should I do?
Someone must write the obituary.
This is my home.
Increased productivity
through the synergy
of professional and private live?
Exactly.
And eventually
it's just all too much.
You can't just run off.
I need you, Maloney!
And I can't use you right now
at all.
Did Marlon steal the plan?
What are you still doing here?
You are not an investor.
- Private detective.
You've put a snitch on us?
Not without reason!
- Now put the weapon down!
Mrs. Schuppisser
had an affair with Mrs. Kohler
from the mushroom department.
Did she want to leave you?
Tabea and Amanita had an affair,
but it's not what you think.
Tabea thought, our
relationship would benefit from it,
when we open them.
And she was right.
He's lying! Open relationships
don't work! You know that.
Tell the truth!
- That is the truth.
I am your boss, you
must tell me the truth!
Okay, okay. I was
always a little jealous.
Tabea promised me
yesterday evening,
to end this with Amanita.
I find, that sounds
all very suspicious.
I think
you both sound very suspicious.
What is that?
"Tabea, you wanted to
fly - now you are dead."
Is that all?
- What?
Isn't this finished yet?
This is awful.
First attempts are never
perfect, but I expect more.
We did talk about it, didn't we?
Make two more suggestions
by this afternoon.
That's enough, you asshole...
- Don't talk to me like that!
No, you don't speak to me like that!
- I expect to be spoken to with proper respect!
(There was one other person,
who dipped into the fondue.)
(Let's see, where she is
emotionally at the moment.)
Yes, exactly.
She ended our relationship,
but that's not so bad.
Mushrooms scatter their
spores in all directions
and form symbioses
with various plants.
Exactly like me.
What happened last night?
- You can't remember anything?
Perhaps, because you drugged me.
Mycotherapy is healthy.
I can't explain your
extreme reaction either.
As if your body had
resisted a cleansing.
There you are.
Homeland, it's damp in here. Has
she confessed to the murder yet?
What?
- You wanted a bigger lab,
but Tabea didn't
want to give it to you.
Mushrooms have a future.
Mushrooms have despite
sustainable investment
no yield-technical benefit.
Tabea knew that,
she never told you that.
People like you have no future!
Someone is looking for a fight.
- What did you say?
Her mother would turn
over in her grave if she saw,
how you run the company and
how tasteless the products are.
If the customer
wants to eat sawdust,
I sell you sawdust.
That's how easy it is.
That's enough. I quit!
Super! Problem solved.
I think it's great too, my
problem is also solved.
Is that poisonous?
Ugh, that's disgusting!
The case would be much simpler if
Mr. Tosoni were truly the victim.
Mr. Tosoni, what is the
Schuppisser strategy anyway?
I never quite understood that.
But Tabea said it
needed structural changes.
Someone should have been fired.
- If that isn't a motive. Who?
I had no opportunity,
to look at the plan.
Let's assume you were the boss.
Who would you fire?
I am the boss.
- Yes.
The Cheesemaker. Benjamin Fink.
The murder weapon
was a cheese knife.
That's no coincidence. Why
does all this have to happen to me?
Hey, that's not the
dairy. Hey, hey! Maloney!
Mr. Fink?
Mr. Fink!
* Mysterious Music with Singing *
Mr. Fink?
Hello?
Mr. Fink!
What's wrong?
What is that noise?
- I'm just singing.
That's a steep thesis.
Is it true that Mrs. Schuppisser
wanted to fire you?
No.
- Are you sure?
What about the murder weapon?
It's a shame to dirty such
a beautiful cheese knife.
Good Lord. And anything else?
Did you see anything?
Hear anything?
Have you murdered someone?
I saw you go into
Tosoni's office.
And you weren't alone.
Not alone?
(I was tired of only being
told half the truth.)
(So I did what I always do in such a case:
a short break.)
The plan is gone.
The killer could come
in at any moment
and I've misplaced my weapon.
And what are you doing?
Taking a power nap?
Sometimes
you have to give the truth time,
then it will appear on its own.
to light.
What did I even
hire you for?
What do you want?
Actually nothing.
- Alright then, let's continue working.
After my mother's death, all
the competing companies wanted
to shut down the company.
But I won't let them take it away
from me - neither then nor now.
A restructuring I can
also manage alone.
* Mysterious Sounds *
* Enticing music *
(I would never have thought in my life,
that I would ever say that.)
Luckily I have a
phone appointment with the police.
Did you want to disappear with the Schuppisser-
strategy?
You stole them. Did you
sell them to the competition?
She's not interested.
I just wanted to see if I
could finally expand my lab.
Ha, look!
- Quiet!
Did you want to go to the party
with me in Mr. Tosoni's office?
That was a win-win situation.
- What's in it?
I always thought that Tosoni
was against my mushrooms.
Moreover, Tabea was against my lab.
- That's why you killed her?
No, certainly not. I would
never do anything like that!
And where is the plan now?
There, where it
belongs: in the trash can.
The plan states
who was to be fired.
And that is a motive for murder.
I haven't looked at the
Schuppisser- strategy that closely.
Maybe she's still there.
Here, here she is.
I've got it, the
Schuppisser strategy!
\"Vision understanding,
top down, bottom up ..."
Numbers, numbers, numbers,
Agile, agile, agile.
Ah. "Within the framework of the current
restructuring measures"
it is unfortunately necessary,
a certain place
to eliminate within the company
.
"This concerns
the position of..."
Give me the plan!
He has my weapon.
Marlon. You killed Tabea?
Ms. Schuppisser did not want him
neither privately nor professionally
to continue to be busy with it.
- She wanted to get rid of me.
And I brought her into the
company. And into my life.
Her career was
always all that mattered.
Then she fired me and left.
Everything was taken from
me. And now I stand here.
I, "Tosoni - the one and only".
What would the company be without the slogan?
A Company
with a better slogan.
That's why you killed her
and tried to frame me?
I wanted to destroy the plan.
They were lying there half dead.
That was just camouflage.
- (Tosoni) Ha!
I thought the whole
time, a killer was after me.
It was just Marlon.
Thanks to my slogan everyone
knows the company Tosoni.
Don't be silly.
Weapons in the air and
head behind the hands!
Ah.
You've already got him packed.
So.
The killer has been caught.
I survived the killer.
- Mr. Andermatt is no killer.
He killed his partner because
she wanted to leave him.
That's why I don't
work with my wife.
Is your wife also a policewoman?
- No, but theoretically.
Theoretically
you could also be a police officer.
Madness.
I survived a killer.
Nothing can stop me.
I no longer need
you, you are fired.
Now I'm going to make a global
corporation out of this company!
If I'm not careful,
Tosoni will overheat me again.
Come in.
No, no, no.
- Cool it.
Hey, hey! That's my company!
Let me out!
Maloney!
It's just a graze. I have just
the right thing for the wound.
If I had known that
it would relieve you,
then I would have naturally
not thrown away the plan.
Now, since I was in
prison because of you,
Could we go and collect some foot fungi
in the indoor pool together?
I have a weakness for
mushrooms. Not for burrs.
* Mysterious Sounds *
(All that remains,
is a negative balance.)
(And for inexplicable reasons:
Muscle soreness in the legs.)
(That's how it is done.)
* Loose party music *
Subtitle: Metatext
commissioned by SWISS TXT - 2024